# sparcs_descriptive_2022

To start, I imported the python packages for the assignment which were pandas, seaborn, and matplotlib. I used the .read_csv function to load the dataset. Then, the functions of str.strip(), .str.lower(), and .str.replace() were used to clean the data columns by making it uniform and getting rid of whitespaces as well as removing symbols. The pd.set_option() function with the display.float_format option was used to change the display of floating numbers by rounding them to three decimal places. To handle missing data and further normalize the data, pd.to_numeric() was used to convert the data types for specified columns to numeric and to replace values that cannot be converted with NaN (Not a Number). And, the .isna().sum() function was used to count the missing values for the specified columns to get a sense of the amount of missing data in the dataset. 

Furthermore, basic descriptive statistics were conducted on the specified columns by using .describe() and .mode(). For .describe(), it provides the count, mean, standard deviation, minimum value, 25th percentile, 50th percentile, 75th percentile, and the maximum value of the column. I did not include the quantiles because I wanted to do the 25th, 50th, and 75th quantiles but they would be the same value as the corresponding percentiles. Also, I used the .mode function to separately determine the value since it was not included in .describe(). 

Moreover, I created a histogram, box plot, pie chart, and bar charts on specified columns to visualize the dataset and understand the trends. I had to use plt.savefig(), plt.show(), and plt.clf() in order to save the visual representations as their own file and make them appear as their own individual images. A quick summary report on the analysis of the data and notes on difficulties I encountered are in the .py file. Moreover, to run the .py file, all one needs to do is run the lines of code from top to bottom to successfully receive the outputs.
